---
layout: post
title: "WDI-Week-1"
modified:
categories: blog
excerpt:
tags: []
image:
  feature:
date: 2016-03-20T08:08:50-04:00
---

I’ve just completed my first week in London at General Assembly on the Web Development Immersive programme and it’s definitely been one to remember. It was my intention to keep this blog updated daily, but after the amount of work in first week I feel a daily blog might be a bit ambitious.

So here’s my breakdown of week 1…

The first day was a huge ‘installfest’ to make sure everyone’s laptop was at the same point before work really began. The first day ended with a trip to the pub, if only all the other days were like that.

Day two was spent getting to grips with git and github, and by lunchtime we had started looking at HTML and CSS. This occupied the rest of the day until 5pm when we were given our first homework… The homework was to recreate the old Instagram layout using a screenshot to base our designs on and only HTML and CSS to style it. I’m sure that most other students in the room felt quietly confident with the task ahead, fast forward 4 hours to 9pm and very few people had come close to finishing.

Day three started with a homework review to see how close people were able to get to the Instagram layout. By 10.30-11 we’d begun javaScript, which was familiar from all the course pre-work and by early afternoon we were playing with if/else statements and loops. Day 3 homework was an alert style javaScript calculator, once again another late night coding. After so much CSS on Tuesday I was secretly relieved to hear the instructors weren’t expecting us to style it and the functionality was the focus of the homework.

Day four was more javaScript and an introduction to the DOM. Thursday was another day another late night homework, and this one seemed particularly bad. We were given the option of using our own code from the night before or solution code, and from there we were to build a second calculator. This time rather than just using javaScript alerts, we had to have an interface built using HTML & CSS and manipulated using JavaScript. This homework went on well after 9pm but was definitely the most rewarding so far, it brought together the previous two homeworks and by the end we all had something functional as well as nice to look at.

Day five, the weekend couldn’t come soon enough! The day was spent looking at homework issues, as well as having a recap of what we’d learnt over the week. We also had some brief sessions on debugging and RTFM, main point to take away was Google and stackoverflow are my friends when it comes to debugging. The weekends homework was similar to day 4 except rather than another calculator it was was a HTML, CSS and javascript game of tic-tac-toe. 