---
layout: post
title: "WDI-Week-2"
modified:
categories: blog
excerpt:
tags: []
image:
  feature:
date: 2016-03-27T08:08:50-04:00
---
As predicted in my last post all my free time seems to revolve around coding and it’s only week 2! With little time for blogging I think my day to day blog is going to become more of a weekly summary of what I’ve learnt and enjoyed.

This week was great, especially the Monday night homework. After a day of looking at click events and objects we were tasked with making and styling a Daft Punk soundboard for their hit track ‘harder better faster stronger’. The final product was a 4 by 4 grid of buttons that when clicked on would play a snippet of the track. Definitely the most fun I’ve had on a homework so far.

Tuesday was dedicated to ‘this’, it was a concept that we were told we’d be spending a while on just to hammer home the point. Tuesday homework was to make another game of rock, paper, scissors. Although it felt like old news after previous homeworks, it was helpful as it really cemented the idea of the DOM.

Wednesday and Thursday were an introduction to my good friend jQuery (‘jake weary’). At first we didn’t get on, although it shortened my code the new syntax seemed foreign after a week of getting comfortable with javaScript.

Friday was project day, and it felt like the first project had come around far too quickly. We were tasked with making a javaScript game by the following Tuesday and everyone seemed just as lost as I did. The instructor Alex was really helpful and spent the day acting as a wall for people to bounce ideas off, he also advised on whether we should be more or less ambitious with our ideas as non of us really knew how much could be accomplished in four days.

I settled on a puzzle game from my childhood called the box game. It’s a two player game where players take it in turns to draw lines on a grid. if you make a full box, you colour the box your colour and then you get another go. The winner is the player with the most boxes at the the end of the game.